                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                             
Here are the rules to Greenland.  The problem is: I don't what the
numbers should be for things like soil erosion, food and hay tokens
used and produced, etc.  What I want is a simple simulation of the
game, with players following various simplified strategies for each
decision such as "x% of the time go walrus hunting (but only if less
than N other players are)".  There will also have to be strategies
around resources sharing, which is more complicated.

The central questions are:
(a) are there sets of strategies where everyone loses?
(b) are there sets of strategies where someone wins?
(c) are there sets of strategies where someone wins *and* it is not the case
that everyone else is dead?
(d) in each of these cases, does resource sharing (trading) happen?

If if turns out that the answer is that there are no winning
strategies, or that there are no strategies that wind up with people
dead, then I want to try various alternatives for the numbers, until
there are these strategies.  



Greenland: a game for 2-6 players

Components:
One year deck, consisting of:
(1) succession card, which signals the end of the game
(5) warm years (of which one is an expensive walrus year and one a cheap walrus year)
(5) cold years (ditto)
(10) temperate years (two of each)

One walrus deck, consisting of:
(5) good hunting 
(5) poor hunting
(10) ordinary hunting
(1) storm

One winter deck, consisting of:
(2) It's still winter
(1) spring

A soil track for each player, numbered 0-99, with each block of ten
marked with a number from 1-10 (the soil fertility level)

A *single* tree track, numbered 0-99, with each block of ten (0-9,
10-19, ...) marked by a level from 10 (at 0-9) down to 1 (the soil
erosion rate)

One seal deck, consisting of:
(10) seals
(1) your hunter dies
(1) no seals

Tokens:
Silver
Ivory

Cows
Sheep

Food
Hay

People
Boats

Building cards:
barns

Rules:

Trading: Unless otherwise specified, a player may at any sequence
point (*) give or trade tokens to any other player.  Trades with immediate
effect (i.e. one cow right now for three hay right now) may not be
reneged upon; trades with future effect (one cow now for three hay
next summer) may be. 

The exception is people tokens, which may be given and traded but which 
the original owner may retrieve any time they are in the settlement 
(that is, not hunting walrus and not in Vinland)

Tokens and buildings are public.

Setup: 

Each player gets four person tokens, a barn, one cow, four sheep, and
a boat

Remove the succession card from the year deck.  Shuffle the year
deck and divide it into two evenly sized piles.  Put the succession
card into one of the piles, reshuffle that pile, and put it beneath
the other pile.

Shuffle the winter and walrus decks, separately

Each player starts their soil fertility counter at the most fertile
end (99) of their soil tracks; the tree counter starts at the most
trees (99) end of the tree track.

Choose one player to be the dealer by rolling dice for highest.

Phases of a turn: 

(1) spring: Each player returns half (rounding up) of all hay tokens.

Turn up the top year card.  It will determine how productive the
fields are this year.  

There is intentionally not a sequence point here.

If the top card is Succession: Return all people to their original
owners.  The game is now over and the player with any surviving people
and the most silver wins.

*

Each player independently decides if they are going to hunt seals.  

Each player who hunts seals puts aside one person token.

*

Go around in a circle, starting from the dealer: each player decides
if they are going to send a boat to Vinland.  If they do decide to
send a boat, they must send at least two of their people on it.  Go
around the circle again: each player who is sending a boat says how
many people they are sending.  Each player who is not sending a boat
may request that another player carry some of their people; they may
request this of as many players as they like, in any order; they may
take more than one offer.  A boat can hold at most ten people.

*

Draw a card from the seal hunting deck. If seals are drawn, each
player who hunted gains 12 food tokens.  If the hunter dies, discard
the person token.  Otherwise, return the seal hunters.

Cows and sheep reproduce: for each sheep token, gain a sheep token;
same for cows.  Put the new tokens in the nursery to show that they do
not produce milk this year.

Each player still in the game gains a person token.

(2) summer:

*

Each player decides if they are going to hunt walrus and
how many people they will send.  Hunting walrus requires a boat, and
the choosing is run exactly like Vinland.

*

Except on turn 1, or if the trade ship is on the "not worth it" space:

A ship arrives from Norway: players may trade processed ivory tokens
for silver at the rate of 1:1 on a cheap year, 1:2 on an ordinary
year, and 1:3 on an expensive year.  If the players, collectively, do
not trade at least 3 ivory, the ship will not return the next year
(move the trade ship to the "not worth it" space).  Trading happens
in a circle as per Vinland.

Each player gains up to N hay token per person (who is not in Vinland
or hunting walrus) per soil fertility level.  On a warm year, N=4, a
temperate year, N=3, and a cold year, N=2.  Move each player's soil
fertility counter down (less fertile) by E * T /3 (rounding up), where
E is the soil erosion rate, and T is the number of hay tokens actually
taken.

Each cow produces 12 food tokens; each sheep produces 8.

(4) Fall:
Everyone who is in Vinland comes back.  Gain 2 units of timber per
person.

Everyone who was hunting walrus comes back.  Draw a card from the
walrus deck -- if it was a good walrus year, each person returns with
five ivory tokens; a bad year, three, an ordinary year, two.  If the
storm card is drawn, all of the people on the walrus boats, and the
boats, are returned.

*

Players may trade sheep for 12 food tokens each or cows for 18.

*

Players go around in a circle, starting from the dealer, to cut down a
tree or deconstruct a boat.  The circle continues until everyone
passes; once a player has passed, they may not later decide to cut
down a tree.  Each player may cut up to one tree (or deconstruct up to
one of their boats) per person token, gaining a timber token and, if
cutting a tree, moving the tree counter down one.

(5) Early Winter:

Remove all the cows and sheep from the nursery.

*

Each player may move cows and sheep to their barns.  All cows and
sheep not in barns are returned.  Each barn can hold 6 animals.

Each player returns six hay tokens for each cow.  They may also return
three hay tokens for each sheep, or graze their sheep outside.

If a player does not graze their sheep outside, the soil can recover;
their soil fertility counter moves up (more fertile) by 4.

Each player returns three food tokens per person.

(6) Midwinter

Players go around in a circle, starting from the dealer, deciding on
building actions.  Each person token may only participate in a single
building action.  The building actions are:

Repair a barn: repairs require one person and one unit of timber.  Any
barns not repaired at the end of this phase are destroyed.  A Player
may, with the consent of the other player, repair another player's barn.

Build a barn: this requires six people and six units of timber. 

Build a boat: this requires three people and three units of timber.

*

The player with the most cows (or, in case of a tie, the most sheep,
then people, then roll a die), chooses the next dealer.

(7) Ending winter: 

Turn up the top winter card.  

*

If it's still winter, each player returns two hay tokens for each cow
and one for each sheep (even if their sheep were previously grazing
outside).  Each player returns one meat tokens or cheese token per
person. Repeat turning up winter cards until the spring card comes up.
Reshuffle the winter deck.

If at any time during the winter, a player is required to return hay
tokens but does not return one, they must return all of their sheep
and cow tokens.  If they are required to return a food token and don't
have one, all of their people die and they are eliminated from the
game.  


CUTS: 

spring: Each player returns half (rounding up) of all hay tokens
*which are not stored in barns* (need to add barn storage rules)

iron seems to have no use, becuase I didn't implement skraelings,
I think.


One immigrant deck, consisting of:
Eyvind, the smith
Gunnvald, the priest
Lars, the hunter
Henrik, the weather predictor
Margareth, the cow breeder
Brigit, the sheep breeder
Magnus, the builder